% Brian Knotten
% CS 1675
% Homework 1

1. [Proposed ML problem 1]: Determining the reading level of books and/or documents.
For example, the Very Hungry Caterpillar might be considered a Kindergarten-level book,
while Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire may be considered a Fourth or Fifth grade-level book.
   Features (x): average syllable count, length of text, average sentence length
   Labels (y): Grade levels such as: Kindergarten, 1-12, Undergrad, Grad, etc.
   Data collection: I would collect data by examining required/suggested reading lists from a variety of academic institutions and libaries,
   as well as by polling a random sampling of readers. The texts themselves would be run through a natural language processesing algorithmn.
   Challenges: Syllable count does not necessarily indicate complexity (a first grader's essay on a hippopotomas),
   neither does length of text (Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad is less than 100 pages but the shortest Harry
   Potter book is over 200 pages long). Additionally, some books can be read and analyzed at multiple reading levels;
   Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, for example, is a popular fantasy children's tale, but can also
   be examined from a literary perspective for its narrative structure, from a mathematical perspective for its
   many allusions to advanced (post-high school) mathematical concepts, and through a myriad of other disciplinary
   lenses.

2. [Proposed ML problem 2]: Sports results prediction
For example, determining the likely hood that the Steelers will win the Super Bowl
   Features (x): Performance records for teams, as well as for individual players
   Labels (y): Player/team ranking, likely outcomes of specific team matchups, etc.
   Data collection: Processing the wide variety of sports-related statistics and analysis publically available
   Challenges: There are a wide variety of variables that determine the outcome of every game - historical data
   is important, yes, but some players get better over time, while others decline in skill with age. Some players
   have better chemistry with some teams than with others. Weather and the location (home vs away) of the game
   can also factor into the outcome of the game. Addtionally, the players are ultimately human, and, like all of
   us, have good and bad days. 
